# ashulyak-hive-thesis

This repo, which accompanies my Master's Thesis "CPU Performance in the Age of Big Data: A Case Study with Hive", includes all programs under test, benchmarks, setup instructions, analysis scripts, post-processing scripts, trace generation Pintools, custom simulators, and all raw data collected for my Thesis. Below is a list of all the related work.

- TPC-H_on_hive_analysis: This repo is a update to Reynold Xin's TPC-H on Hive repo https://github.com/rxin/TPC-H-Hive. Its been edited so that performance counter metrics, CPU usage and disk I/O metrics, logs, query plans, and Pintool logs can be collected while TPC-H is running on Hive. The README.md file in that directory provides all the details necessary to recreate the expirement.
- mysql_tpch: This repo is a update to TPC-H's source code (dbgen,qgen,etc.).  Its been edited so that performance counter metrics, CPU usage and disk I/O metrics, logs, query plans, and Pintool logs can be collected while TPC-H is running on MySQL. The README.md file in that directory provides all the details necessary to recreate the expirement.
- trace_gen: This repo provides my custom Pintool used to collect instruction/memory traces used on my L1i cache simulator. It can be used in conjunction with mysql_tpch and TPC-H_on_hive_analysis. The README.md file in that directory provides all the details necessary to start collecting your own traces.
- runahead-prefetch: This repo provides my custom trace-based cache simulator. This simulator has highly generic and adaptive componenents, but in its current state, it is designed to just simulate a single CPU, L1i cache, and instruction prefetching mechanism. The simulator is unique when compared to other trace-based simulators in that it recreates front-end CPU execution with a psuedo-CPU-simulator using only instruction address and control-flow information. Traces generated by trace_gen are fed into the simulator. The README.md file in that directory provides all the details necessary to start simulating the execution of your own traces.
- raw_results: This directory includes all the excel files with the raw data, as well as our statistical analysis, results, and visualizations of the data.
- raw_traces: The README.md in this directory provides a Google Drive link to all the traces generated by the trace_gen script for this thesis. The directory also includes two scripts used to analyze the traces. One generates a plethora of microarch independent metrics, and the other is a simple L1i cache simulator.
